as17(1) - assembler for the fictional RUN1617 CPU
=================================================

## SYNOPSIS
`as17` [-f <format>] [-o <output>] <file>...

## DESCRIPTION
**as17** is an assembler for the RUN1617 CPU. All input files are
concatenated in order, and output starts at the first instruction in
the first file in the file list.

## OPTIONS

  * `-f`:
    With the `bin` option, outputs binary instruction codes (default).
    With the `hd` option, outputs a hexdump of the instruction codes.

  * `-o`:
    Specify output file. Default is `a.out`.

## LANGUAGE
Assembly labels are case-insensitive, instructions and register names
are not. Every instruction may carry at most one label. Labels may be
any valid word starting with an alphabetic character or an underscore,
followed by a combination of alphanumeric characters or underscores. Note
that full stops are not valid in label names.

Also invalid as label names are the keywords `zero`, `rsp`, `rip` and
any word starting with a combination of an `r` followed by a numeric
character.  Any capitalization of the above exceptions are also invalid
label names.

`zero`, `rsp` and `rip` are aliases for `r0`, `r14` and `r15` respectively.

If a semicolon is encountered, the rest of the line is ignored.

### EXAMPLE

	; Multiply two values
	; R1 <- R1 * R2
	mul:
		ANDf R2, R2, ZERO
		MOVE.Z 0, R1
		RET.Z

		PUSH R3
		MOVE R2, R3

	_loop:
		ANDf R2, R2, ZERO
		POP.Z R3
		RET.Z

		ANDf 1, R2, ZERO
		ADD.NZ R1, R3, R1
		XORf.NZ 1, R2, R2

		ROR 1, R2, R2
		ROL 1, R3, R3
		JUMP _loop

## COPYRIGHT

as17 is Copyright (C) 2017 Antonie Blom. It is licensed under the terms
of the GNU General Public License version 2.
